>> Evgenii Ray: Okay, so
we completed the part 3, so
now we have our start and end pointer and
we also rendered the data, but
the next part will be
slightly more complex.
So now we're going to
initialize the pool of
elements in the memory
that we will maintain.
So once we render item 1, 2, 3, and 4,
we'll place them in the virtual
memory array that we maintain.
And when the user scrolls the viewport,
when we scrolled down and
triggered the bottom of the observer
again, what we're gonna do first,
we're going to slice array in half and
swap the places.
So, the item one and
item 2 will become the last elements,
while item 3 and
4 will become the first 1.
Visually, there will be no changes yet
because we don't utilize any,
we don't move any elements yet.
But as the first step, we need to update
the how elements are stored in the memory.
So we also update the start and
end pointer, because now the start will
start will start from the page two and
the end will finish on the page three.
So let's now let's jump to the next
section of the code, okay,
so we're back to the bottom observer.
And as we mentioned before,
now we can't just render elements
as we scroll down, so
we need to have some kind of a limit.
And we can define this limit as
a double of the page size, so
we can create a new
variable called this limit.
>> Evgenii Ray: And it will be equal
to the double of the page size,
so we always maintain two pages in memory.
And we also need to create a virtual
memory array where we store our
HTML elements that are created, because
we need to have some reference to them.
So if we scroll down now
to the bottom observer, so
here we can create more elements
if the limit is reached.
So what we need to do we
need to check if this pool
length is less than the limit that we set.
>> Evgenii Ray: So we need to move
this code under this condition and
now we only append elements
if the limit is reached and
also we need to populate our
pool with a new card element.
>> Evgenii Ray: So now when the limit
is reached we will not render any
more elements and
we can verify that by running
the index.html again, so
let's see if it works.
So now we should render
at max 20 elements, so
there will be no new events page,
so we reached the limit.
So the next part would be to exchange
the data and swap the halves.
How we do that is let's
create a new function that
will be responsible for
that and let's call it,
so it'll be called this update element.
>> Evgenii Ray: So actually.
>> Evgenii Ray: So we can do it right
here, so if the limit is not reached,
so we need to now cut our
pool into the two halves and
basically swap the places
of these two halves.
So let's cut our array using
the slice function, so
the first part of our array will be
called recycle, because when used to
recycle elements from the top, which
is exactly the first half of the array.
And then the next one will
be called unchanged because
we we're not playing to recycle them.
Okay, so now I'm going to slice
the pool into two halves,
so I'm going to use the slice function and
the first half and from its from zero to
the page size and
the last half starts from-
>> Evgenii Ray: The props page size, so
if you don't provide a second argument,
then we just slice from the page size and
to the end.
Okay, now we have our two parts,
let's reinitialize the pool and
swap the places like we saw on the slides.
So we create, we update our pool and
we do unchanged and
then we concatenate the tree cycle array.
So now in memory we actually
switch the places, but
it will not reflect on the UI, because
right now it's just a memory operation.
So now we need to update the data, so
because we fetched some data here,
so we can actually update
the data of the elements.
So the elements will not be moved yet, but
we can still update the text
content of these elements.
So what we're gonna do is
we're gonna call the update
data that accepts the elements
that we want to recycle and
it also accepts the data
that we just fetched.
And let's implement this one, so we need
to loop for the data that we receive.
>> Evgenii Ray: And actually let's
use the index cycle instead.
>> Evgenii Ray: So
we're gonna loop through the data
>> Evgenii Ray: And now we are going to
use our function that we provided,
the update element, the update template.
So the update template function
accepts the new piece of data
that we just fetched, and
we can access it by using index.
And then we need to provide an element
that we want to update and we know this
element because we're providing the
elements array that we want to recycle.
And we pass the element.
Using the index, okay,
now we are updating
the data of our elements.
And if we go back now to.
>> Evgenii Ray: To the bottom observer,
if we scroll down, so we reach the bottom,
but then when you click
the bottom observer again,
you see we just updated
the data of our cards.
And we can just continue this process and
the data will be updated, but
nothing is moved yet because we
haven't applied any transformation.
So we basically did
exactly the separation, so
we swapped the places with the array and
also updated the day of these items.
The next part will be to
recalculate the real position
of the elements and
how we are going to do that.